There is only a thin line between Java and advanced Java. I presume you understand the basic programming constructs and want to move to an expert level. May be these suggestions will help you.

1. Learn Threads. Even if you know what it is, learn by writing code. Use the monitors to synchronize data among threads. Run a 100 threads in your machine and see the CPU usage!
2. Concurrency package. This is one of the fantastic things java has introduced since it's inception. If you have this skill under your belt, you can tackle the hardest of problems in threads. Use the Java concurrency in practice book to learn it.
3. Java NIO. You must be knowing IO classes. NIO is not a replacement for IO, but it complements IO. Where IO ends, NIO starts. You can write performant chat servers or even web servers with this knowledge.
4. J2EE. J2EE is a set of Java libraries to develop web applications that run in a Java program called container. Tomcat is one such container. Lot of tutorials are available online teaching you to write web applications. However this has to be dealt carefully considering how vast this space is. I suggest a thorough understanding JSP and Servlets is good enough.
5. Hibernate and Spring. These are some of the most commonly used java libraries. Hibernate is ORM tool while Spring is commonly used for dependency infection. I may be thrown in a couple of jargons, but a good explanation can be found with a simple search.
6. Above all, learn programming. Study the basic algorithms. These days we get a library for any algorithm that might be out there. Which makes us ignore the basics of programming. Don't fall into that trap. Learn to apply algorithm to your day to day problems. But use the libraries by all means. As you grow from beginner to expert level, you will see that a sound understanding of algorithms and data structures makes all the difference!
